OSDOC-1175 Migration (#31774)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/persistent-storage-csi-migration-enable.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.adoc

[id="persistent-storage-csi-migration-enable_{context}"]
= Enabling CSI automatic migration
.Procedure

* Enable feature gates (see xref:../../nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-enabling-features.adoc[Enabling features using feature gates]).
+

> The following configuration example enables CSI automatic migration to both CSI drivers (EBS and Cinder):

Reviewer: Please add a note somewhere that enablement of CSI migration will drain and restart all nodes in the cluster (in sequence) and as such may take some time.

> The following configuration example enables CSI automatic migration to both CSI drivers (EBS and Cinder):

Reviewer 2: s/EBS/AWS EBS/ ?

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:

>   featureSet: TechPreviewNoUpgrade <1>

Reviewer 2: How about adding a note here. If we use `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` featureset to enable csi migration, then the enable operation is undone, and will block the cluster upgrade.

...
----
<1> Enables automatic migration for AWS EBS and Cinder.
+

> You can specify CSI automatic migration for a selected CSI driver by setting `featureSet` to either:

Reviewer 2: How about updating this as:
```
You can specify CSI automatic migration for a selected CSI driver by setting `CustomNoUpgrade` featureset and `CSIMigrationAWS`, `CSIMigrationOpenStack` featuregates.

+
--
* CSIMigrationAWS

* CSIMigrationOpenStack
--
+
The following configuration example enables automatic migration to the AWS EBS CSI driver only:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  featureSet: CustomNoUpgrade
  customNoUpgrade:

>     enabled:CSIMigrationAWS <1>

Reviewer 2: The yaml file format should be:
```
spec:
  featureSet: CustomNoUpgrade
  customNoUpgrade:
    enabled:
    - CSIMigrationAWS <1>

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.adoc

[id="persistent-storage-csi-migration-enable_{context}"]
= Enabling CSI automatic migration

> 

Reviewer 3: Should have an intro sentence to the module.

[NOTE]
====
Enabling CSI automatic migration drains, and then restarts, all nodes in the cluster in sequence. This might take some time.
====

.Procedure

> * Enable feature gates (see xref:../../nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-enabling-features.adoc[Enabling features using feature gates]).

Reviewer 3: * You can't use an xref from within a module. I'd instead add an "== Additional resources" section to the end of the assembly and link to it there.
* I don't think that "Enable feature gates" is the right terminology. Should it be something like "Enable CSI automatic migration by using a feature gate"?

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> After turning Technology Preview features on using feature gates, they cannot be turned off and cluster upgrades are prevented.

Reviewer 3: I'm using the suggested change feature here, but be sure not to use the button to accept the changes. Just moving "on" closer to "turning", and I'd either break up into two sentences, or add a semicolon.

```suggestion
After turning on Technology Preview features by using feature gates, they cannot be turned off. As a result, cluster upgrades are prevented.
```

====
+
The following configuration example enables CSI automatic migration to both CSI drivers (AWS EBS and Cinder):
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: FeatureGate
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  featureSet: TechPreviewNoUpgrade <1>
...
----

> <1> Enables automatic migration for AWS EBS and Cinder.

Reviewer 3: According to https://deploy-preview-31774--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-enabling-features.html#nodes-cluster-enabling-features-about_nodes-cluster-enabling, the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set also includes other features.

1. Should we mention that here, adding something like ", among other features." or something?
2. Should that table in the link above be updated to include CSI migration as a feature that's enabled using it?

Author: 1. I'm not sure that users really care about other features being enabled, and they will see that that is the case if they read the feature gates content.
2. Yes. This table is due to be updated: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/24132

+

> You can specify CSI automatic migration for a selected CSI driver by setting `CustomNoUpgrade` `featureSet` and for `featuregates` either:

Reviewer 3: This is a really long single step. I'd consider breaking it up into two separate options:

```
* Enable CSI automatic migration by enabling a feature set
* Enable CSI automatic migration for a selected CSI driver
```

You could find better wording I'm sure, but the point being that you can either use a default feature set that includes multiple things, or you can do a custom one to just get the driver you want

Author: The problem there is that the first step is enabling feature gates, and then the choice of how you do it, so you end up repeating that 1st step/prerequisite. Bob and I went round and round on this for a long time, and this is kinda the best we could come up with. Bob also consulted other writers on Slack for opinions on this, so I understand your point, but it's one of those difficult to make perfect situations.

+
--

> * CSIMigrationAWS

Reviewer 3: I'd consider moving these options down to the callout as the possible options.
